>> Zac: Let's go ahead and
take a practice with this, shall we?
Now, we could open up to 4.1 and
we could see this will make
a little bit more sense now.
So first, it's telling you, go ahead and
access the root of your URL,
the root of your API, and see what's
there and we'll look at that together.
And then, go ahead and
try to access posts.
And pass a id to it.
Now you might not have a post id one for
some reason, it might've been deleted or
something happened.
So I'll show you how in the admin
area to figure out exactly what
id a post has with it.
And then go to pages and
you should see a list of pages and
then we'll have a little bit of
time to go to the other one so.
Go to media, go to users,
go to those other ones.
Try creating a second user,
that sort of thing, okay?
So let's go ahead all and open up our
sites and take a look at the WP JSON root.
So if I go to mysite.com/wp-json.
>> Female: Is there
a plugin to make it look all organized?
>> Zac: Yeah, there's a really nice one
it is called thank you for that.
>> Male: Jsonview.
>> Zac: Jsonbeautifier is that
the one.
>> Male: That's for wordcross really?
>> Zac: No, it's a chrome extension.
There is one and
then it wasn't there anymore.
Okay, I think it's JSON view.
I'm not sure which one I'm using, there's
a few of them but different browsers have
different ones and you definitely
want to install one of these.
That is an awesome question, thank you.
If you ever wanted to get the name
of your site, what's the URL of it.
Again you kind of have to have
the URL in order to get the URL so
that's a little bit silly.
But definitely remember how we
passed in blog info name or
blog info description through
localized scripts before.
Now if we need that data we could
just hit our main JSON endpoint and
convert this into an object and get .name
and it will be the name of our site.
The namespaces is another important thing
so remember how I said there are certain
plug-ins that you can install that
will give you other namespaces.
So soon,
we're gonna look at authenticating with
JavaScript web tokens or JSON web tokens.
So that adds its own endpoint for
authenticating.
I have this simple one
here that's adding it.
There's an oembed/1 because if you take a
WordPress site URL and embed it in another
WordPress site it will do a certain
design and like frame it all party.
So that's it, we don't have
authentication, anything in there,
the biggest one we wanna look at is in
routes, and so if i start toggling some of
these down,
>> Zac: Notice
that now we're starting to see
the routes that I'd pulled up before and
not only that we have things like pages
but then you could pass an ID into it and
there's our revisions one media
>> Zac: And
there's some other information we'll
see here, which are the methods.
So it's a little bit outside of the scope
to get into the depths of HTTP,
as much as I would love to.
But each route will let you know
what you could do to that route, so
If we're on media, we could get media
objects and we could post media objects.
If we come down to media with a specific
id, we can get that specific media item.
We could post new ones.
We could also put and patch,
which are versions of updating,
so it's only gonna update that
certain information you need and
we could delete it, why do you think you
can't delete all your media at once?
Well, probably cuz you probably
don't wanna do that, right?
So that doesn't exist cuz it would
wipe out your entire media library.
They're gonna assume, hey if you really
wanna delete something then you've
gotta go ahead and tell us specifically
what it is that you wanna delete.
So this has a lot of different information
about everything that we're looking for
and this is our root or
our index and we're done.
So, now let's go to the next
exercise wpv2posts1 so
we put /wp/v2/posts/1.
>> Zac: Does everybody get a 1?
If you don't have that,
let me show you something.
>> Zac: So if I go into all my posts and
I open up a,
>> Zac: A specific post up here in
the browser, it'll say post is equal to.
Mine is saying 1.28.
If you ever need to get the ID of a post,
you could get it that way.
So go into the admin area,
go to all your posts or all your pages,
click on a specific one, get something
that has valid id or if you go to all
posts you'll see all of your posts and
it will tell you the id right there, okay?
But let's go back to post slash 1 or
post 8, whatever gives you the data.
So at this point, what we could do is
explore what data is available to us.
And every time you go to
a different end point,
it's gonna have different data available.
But this is all of the basic
post information you need.
We have things like The ID, if you
ever wanted to link directly to a url,
if you put this ID in with
question mark p equals,
it will automatically redirect you to
the right url structure for your site.
We could get some date formats,
the slug, the status, the link to it.
Now this is important, notice how title
is title and then rendered inside of it.
So we can't just call post.title,
we have to call post.title.rendered,
and then we get what we want.
And the reason is,
is because if we authenticate and
make the same request,
we're gonna get more access to more data.
So for example, we can get things like
the raw data before it's filtered, or
the four different paragraph tags or line
breaks and put in and things like that.
So there are for title,
content, and excerpt, usually
we want to use dot rendered, and we can
never do just dot title on it's own.
So it's a little weird thing that
you'll get comfortable with.
Notice then, we've got the author.
There's no featured media.
If there was, there'd be detail there and
then a lot of metadata.
So it just links to the author and
all this other information.
Watch what happens, though,
when you put ?_embed and go ahead and
type this in on your own.
So what this does Is now if I scroll down,
>> Zac: Under links I have _embedded.
So previously, all I had about
the author was their ID, but
now WordPress is going to go,
sorry let me make this a little bit
bigger,
>> Zac: Now WordPress is going to go when
I say get the embedded content And
it will get all of this information
about the author, their description,
the links to their Gravatar images,
their name if they've changed it,
the slug to them,
all these other information, right?
It also will get us replies so
if there are comments
it will pull back in.
And then wp:term, so
this will get us before we add categories.
Categories and tags are part of a larger
term in WordPress called taxonomies.
And so
a category could be considered a term.
And so this will get us, not just the ID
but the actual category name, right?
So this is more helpful for
us a lot of the time.
And this is why we would use embed.
Now, a lot of folks use embed and
pretty regularly, but
making all these extra requests to pull in
all the author data, all the reply data,
and all the term data,
especially the more and more you have.
Then that makes the request
more expensive.
So, again you really wanna
thinking about,just because
is it possible to do it and
get more data, is it the smart thing to
do?
>> Zac: Let's look
one last example go to pages
>> Zac: And
pages should have all your pages.
I've only got one page, but
it's got my content here.
Notice that again title.rendered
will give us the title and
content.rendered will give us the content.
>> Zac: And
the same thing happens where we have
the author but no author information.
But if we put ?_embed,
>> Zac: Then when we
come down underneath the links then we've
got all the author information again,
no replies because it's not a comment.
But we have those extra details, cool?
So what we'll do is put like
two minutes on the clock or
something and try accessing some of,
>> Zac: These ones, okay?
So I'll leave this up.
We already did post pages.
See if you can find specific ID's.
If not, just put them up.
And again, you might only have
one uncategorized category.
So then go and try adding some more,
assigning it to a page,
really see how things adapt and change and
what format you'll get it back in